Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to be discussing string functions and operations luckily Postgres sequel
provides us a variety of string functions and operators that let us do things like edit combine and
alter text data columns.
Let's jump to the documentation as well as P.G. admin to see what's available to us and also work through
some typical examples.
All right.
Here I am inside my browser.
I have PGI admin open.
But before we explore it I want to just show you the documentation page for string functions and operators.
So if you go to this page and documentation its postwar sequel dot org slash Doc slash current slash
functions dash string or you just look up string functions and operators plus postcard sequel.
You'll notice that very similar to the mathematical functions page it gives you a list of functions
the return data type descriptions examples and then results so you can take a look at the different
types of functions you can do things like strength and coordination so you can concatenate two strings
together in order to get some sort of results.
You can also do things like check the length of strings lowercase strings etc..
So lots of different things searching for sub strings within a certain pattern as well as pattern and
regular expression matching.
You can check out Section nine point seven in the documentation for more details on that case.
Regular expressions and pattern matching is something you're already quite familiar with.
Recall that we also have like an I like as operators that can be used with things like wild cards.
There's other string functions as well things like converting from string to some sort of encoding depending
on what language you're using et cetera.
So lots and lots of different options here.
We definitely don't have time nor do we need to really go through all these since a lot of them you
won't really experience yourself in a typical query but we will go over some really common use cases
especially with this string concatenation often you want to assemble some sort of string or text data
based off other columns.
So let's jump to Pete Chapman for here an explorer just a few typical examples.
We're gonna be dealing with the customer table so quickly show you what's in the customer table in case
you have forgotten.
So let's run this.
We can see the customer I.D. store I.D. and we're gonna be working with here is the first name and last
name.
So notice that these customers already have an email later on we're gonna be showing you how to possibly
construct an example email through a sequel query in case you had to do that.
But first let's show you how you can perform a very simple function call that operates on tax data.
For example let's say you wanted to grab the length the first name of somebody to do that.
We would simply look up in the documentation how you would actually grab the length and if you start
searching here for things like length.
Eventually you would find by scrolling down and kind of exploring this that there's actually a length
function so you'd follow the example here.
Here are all the examples are shown effectual strings.
We can just pass in a text data column and then so we'll say select and you can put this in all caps
if you want just reformatting purposes select length from first name or from customer here we run this.
Now we have the length of that first name.
So maybe you wanted to use that as some sort of identifier.
OK now let's show you how to perform concatenation.
In fact if you go to documentation it's one of the very first things they talk about string concatenation
and what they do is they use these two pipe operators in a row usually on your keyboard that's right
above the backslash so let's go ahead and concatenate first name along with last name.
So if we say first name space two pipe operators.
And then last name from customer we run that couple of things to note here is there is no space currently
between the first name and the last name in the results.
Also this column doesn't have a name.
Let's go ahead and fix these.
Let's start off with fixing the fact that there is no space there.
So we just hold post Chris equal to take the first name and immediately concatenate it with the last
name.
If we want we can add in another concatenation of just a space string.
So note what I'm doing here I'm saying first name concatenated with this empty space.
So notice there is a space here between these two single quotes and then concatenate that again with
the last name.
So now when I run this I get the spacing between the first name and the last name.
And you could replace this with whatever you want.
So if you wanted to put two dashes there.
Notice now there's two dashes there.
So we'll keep it as just a space.
And then the other thing we wanted to fix here was the fact that we just have this kind of weird question
mark column question mark.
So we can use the alias to work with this will say select first name last name as and let's just go
ahead and type this as full name.
We run this and now we see we've been able to change that they'd output to a full name.
So a very typical query here for using string concatenation.
You can always put in other functions as well onto these columns and concatenate at the same time.
For instance we could uppercase these by using upper and pass those columns into this so we can say
upper here as well and now when we run this notice that the full name is now in full uppercase.
You can always expand this column width to see the full results and I'll show you one last kind of more
complex example to reiterate and select everything from the customer table.
Let's imagine that for some reason we don't already have an e-mail for these customers or maybe even
for some employees and we wanted to create an email for them.
Well often if you work at a company you may realize this but there's an e-mail method where you just
take the first letter of the first name and then add in their last name and then add in something like
at whatever your company named dot com is.
Let's see if we can follow that simple process using sequel so what I'm going to do here is do this
in a couple of steps.
First we know we need to concatenate the first name or first letter of the first name.
Then the last name and then list is to use at gmail dot com for our example purposes.
So I'm going to do the following.
We'll say first name concatenated with last name connected with.
And then as a string will you say at gmail dot com.
So we run this.
And so far we have a couple of things here.
No I say we want just to use the first letter of the first name and also something that maybe isn't
exactly a problem but we do want to fix this in our examples here for practice.
Is the fact that we have both the first name and last name still capitalized.
So let's go ahead and fix the issue first of instead of grabbing the whole first name.
I just want to grab the first letter.
Now if you're exploring the documentation or you do a quick google search on this you would eventually
figure out that there is a function called Left which returns the first end characters in the string
and the giving example here if you call left on ABC the E and then two as the second parameter it returns
back a B which are the first two letters which means we can use left on the first name column along
with a one to grab that first letter so let's go ahead and run that will say left on first name come
a one in order just to grab that first letter.
So now we have J M P et cetera.
Ellie Smith Johnson so we're able to grab just that first letter and now let's go ahead and lowercase
everything we'll call lower on these results.
So we'll do lower on last name as well.
Run this and we have the expected e-mail addresses.
And if we want we can always say something as our custom email that we created run that.
And this is a very typical example of using string functions and string operators in order to basically
create a new column that is useful for a certain situations such as creating customer email addresses.
OK.
So definitely a big part of this is exploring the documentation and feeling comfortable with it.
Thanks.
And I'll see you at the next lecture.